Statement of Purpose
====================

Prepare a concise one or two page essay in PDF format that describes your primary areas of interest, your related experiences, and your objective in pursuing a graduate degree at Carnegie Mellon.

- [x] Your essay should be specific in describing your interests and motivations.
- [x] When describing your interests, you should explain why you think they are important areas of study and why you are particularly well-suited to pursue them.
- [x] You should describe any relevant education, research, commercial, government, or teaching experience.
- [x] Include your name and User ID on the essay.

Notes for specific programs:

- [x] Master's in Computer Science applicants: Discuss your purpose in pursuing a master's degree in Computer Science.
  - [x] For example, you might explain how advanced study in Computer Science fits into your future career ambitions.
- [x] There are no right answers, and you do not need to have worked out your future plans in detail.
- [x] We just want to see that **you have thought your purpose through**.
- [ ] If your background is unusual, this is also the right place to explain it to us.


## Main

Hi, I am Weiwen Chen, my user ID is ofey206@gmail.com.

Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. In my opinion, the heart of free/open-source collaboration is the way people work together, a healthy relationship. In the age of remote work, it's time to apply insights from free/open-source software to other non-CS areas. I want to build an open-source version control system for digital illustrations.

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. I explored popular illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* while learning to sketch, but artworks are shared in the final output figure file format, rather than shared by source like *GitHub*. Illustrators could have all merits programmers have enjoyed in open-source collaboration if the right tool is put into their hands.

Among all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Compared with online documents or sharing project files directly, VCS enables asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which can be the foundation of a productive community willing to share. Besides, only a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

As Walter Benjamin said, tech could capture a place of its own among the artistic processes. With an accessible VCS, enthusiasts could study exactly how professionals work. Remote artists can work together, just like Michelangelo and his apprentices working on the same mural. What's more, VCS would go further beyond yet another productivity tool, even beyond an art academy without walls. "Given enough eyeballs, all innovations will come out," by unleashing the power of social collaboration, a healthy community could make unprecedented large-scale projects. This idea first hit me when I was shocked by the early death of Miura Kentaro, author of the famous manga *Berserk*. If there were a VCS, more posthumous or unfinished works would have a second life.

Version control is a real treasure chest for all kinds of creators, and I started to understand this two years ago, when I set up a *Gitlab* instance for my colleagues in the computational physics lab I worked then. After I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, some started to manage code, some stored slides, notes, or even paper drafts. It is actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the invitation of their supervisor. In a word, coding is about managing cascading concepts, which is a common pattern in creative works. The workflow built around version control is well tested by decades of free/open-source collaboration, and creators would discover new ways to utilize the power.

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and making it through. After I decided to take programming seriously, I pushed myself to sink-or-swim. Two honors program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, designed for sophomore or higher CS major students, that's what I took, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. I managed to survive, got a real kickstart, and in addition, made lots of friends. My passionate and agile hacking style was formed in my PingCAP intern days. The job interview task is to build a proxy with several error injection functionalities, within one week. With few Golang experience then, I kept hacking in the convenience store under my dormitory, submitted the assignment on the sixth day. I won the job, and happily found myself competent. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I love programming, I want to be great at the risk of failing noisily, and I know that Stanford is the place for challengers with crazy ideas.

I won't work alone. I have rich collaboration experiences, and my understanding on it would help me design a successful VCS. Collaboration is even more powerful when it happens asynchronously and automatically. My experiment video recorded in SOC lab helped many newcomers, far beyond my expectations. In my recent research, the habit of organizing work with *GitHub* turned out to be a bonus, because there are always so many lucrative pages I can refer to - issues, pull requests, code review, and technical decisions. Besides, all free/open-source lovers know public good doesn't come from the void, and I'm willing to generate some. I volunteered at PC Service Group for about two years as a python consultant. And I published all my application materials on a public *GitHub* repository, to anyone interested.

CMU won my respect by the mass public goods it created: I enjoyed Andy Pavlo's Advanced Database Systems during the pandemic; the quality and accessibility impressed me. Also, the OSSTA report (Open Source Software Toolkits for the Arts) by the Frank-Ratchye STUDIO was one of the most valuable pieces of documentation I read about art and technology.

I bring my roadmap, if I have the honor to be accepted. I would choose Applied Study variant, to build my muscle in real-world problems, and finally deliver my VCS in 15-691 Practicum. The Frank-Ratchye Studio is an exciting place for me, for its wide connection and generous support, and I would try my best to win the FRFAF (Frank-Ratchye Fund for Arts @ the Frontier). Besides, I'd like to take 15-746 Advanced Storage Systems and 15-662 Computer Graphics, for knowledge on cutting-dege storage and CG.

In the long run, an open-source leader is what I want to be. This path needs more than just devotion, but also maturity in engineering and a holistic understanding of technical, economic, and social issues. I believe CMU could be a portal to the larger context, through which I can connect to the widest possible array of experts, facilities and partners.

I am an indie hacker, but I'm not Athena who was born full-grown - I started programming at the age of 18. The only thing I'm sure of is that I would be somebody, early or late, in the software industry. And I applied for your renowned MSCS project to grow faster. I believe I will be a valuable asset to the project.

## EndMain

// TODO

My future plan:

- seek funding/support from FRFAF-Funded Projects
- It would be a critical software in digital art generation
  - To such researchers, the STUDIO provides direct financial, administrative, logistical, advisory, and technical support.
  - at the frontiers of diverse fields such as virtual and augmented reality, interactive robotic installation, generative arts, playable art, critical software

----

formalize and recognize the augmentation of their academic coursework through a real-world application.

- Advanced Storage Systems
- Computer Graphics
  - Applied physics.

----

I would make my VCS a program on Practicum.

Concurrent with the applied-study experience, students complete 15-691 (Practicum).

### Courses

- Advanced Storage Systems
- Computer Graphics
  - Applied physics.

### Applied Variant

Students in the Applied Study degree program complete the requirements of the core 108-unit MSCS program, plus an additional 6 units of applied-study course-work and a required summer applied-study experience.

In a Fall or Spring semester, students complete 15-690 (MSCS Career Preparation), a 3-unit class in which a stu-dent works with the student’s Advisor and staff from the Career Center to clar-ify objectives for the applied-study experience and to seek, develop, and select among opportunities.

Concurrent with the applied-study experience, students complete 15-691 (Practicum).

----

However, applying classroom learning to real-world problems in an intensive fashion helps many students ﬁrm up, or change, their career plans.

The Applied Study variant is designed for students who wish to formalize and recognize the augmentation of their academic coursework through a real-world application.

### Course Load

The standard course load is 36 units of regular classes, typically three 12-unit classes. Sometimes, depending on circumstances, a special-purpose class may be suggested or required (e.g., 15-604, 15-690, 15-691). Some students take four regular classes in one or more semesters (this does not result in extra tuition charges).

### Frank-Ratchye Studio

https://studioforcreativeinquiry.org

Our people (who include faculty, staff, students, and visitors) work at the frontiers of diverse fields such as virtual and augmented reality, interactive robotic installation, generative arts, playable art, critical software, biological art, tactical media, experimental interaction design, relational art, and other forms of cultural instigation.

To such researchers, the STUDIO provides direct financial, administrative, logistical, advisory, and technical support.

The STUDIO also serves as a “meta-laboratory” — a portal to the larger university context through which creative persons can connect to the widest possible array of experts, facilities, and resources.

### FRFAF-Funded Projects

Since 2013, the STUDIO has supported more than 400 CMU projects through our grant program, the Frank-Ratchye Fund for Arts @ the Frontier (FRFAF).

Projects realized with FRFAF funds are restricted to persons who are actively affiliated with Carnegie Mellon University, and are typically conducted by sole creators or by small teams in timeframes under one year.

----

The FRFAF is an endowment to encourage the creation of innovative artworks by the faculty, students and staff of Carnegie Mellon University.

With this fund, the STUDIO seeks to develop a cache of groundbreaking and interdisciplinary projects created at CMU.

The FRFAF supports between approximately 50 projects per year with grants up to $5000.

Any faculty, student or staff person actively affiliated with CMU is eligible to apply, regardless of their home department.

