Craftsmanship
=============

"Craftsmanship is a contagion, a kind of mental virus. You catch it by observing others and allowing the meme to take hold." said the book *The Clean Coder*, and I appreciate this idea. As an interest-driven, self-taught programmer, I have various experiences in my four years' programming journey - Started with the installation of Linux, I became an enthusiast, worked for hardware and computational physics labs, had an internship, and worked for a software lab until now. To get the most out of the master project, I want to build up my craftsmanship, the mindset held by professionals. 

"More is different." that's the very thing I understand after I switch from the discipline of natural science to engineering. In math and science, a problem may be too intrinsic or require too much intelligence to push forward, but the size itself can be a problem in engineering. Currently, I am working on a 30000 line codebase with a doctoral student. 30Klines written by previous developer, and one collaborator, it's not a big amount, but without careful management, nothing meaningful could be done. Linux kernel and other massive open-source projects have millions of code lines, and when many people collaborate, the collaboration itself becomes a complex system to manage. Computer and software are the most complicated creations humankind ever made, just like some invisible cities. Luckily, to find my way, it's no need to know every room, every decoration on every wall, knowledge of maps and signs is enough to begin. Here is the craftsmanship stands: To manage the complexity inherent in code and human activities.

Coding is more like writing an essay or painting rather than building a wall, for the core of coding is manipulating cascading concepts. Assembly overshadows gates, and other languages are built on concepts of assembly, then you write your own program, just like the way an essay was built. And few meaningful engineering products are made by clever code alone since the knowledge and time required is often beyond the single human mind can hold. Three people can build the same wall simultaneously, but the ordinary writers or painters won't work like that, so as the programmers—the collaboration model matters. I especially like what the free/open source community does, distributed version control, use issues and pull requests to persist the history. It's like painters each takes responsibility for a figure in the whole picture, and every meaningful stroke is recorded. When I was in the computational physics lab, I tried to introduce this to non-CS related disciplines. I set up a Gitlab instance on their server, gave lectures about git-based workflow, and wrote documentation in case I left. It was a boost of productivity, and even after I left that Gitlab is still in use now. I picked the habit of working around Github repository during my Internship in PingCAP Inc. It turned out to be a bonus when another graduated student came to help with our project in November. Since I use issues and pull requests to collaborate with my partner, record reasons for technical decisions, and do code reviews to remove unnecessary parts, there were always pages to which I could refer when he had doubts. Many of them contained details I forgot. Stick to those I considered as craftsmanship expanded my ability beyond my limited working memories. "If you can't reduce it to a freshman level, you don't really understand it." said Richard Feynman. Coding is expressing, and craftsmanship is about understanding the nature of code and the people around it to make it clear enough. I even placed my application material in a public repository on GitHub, `ofey404/Application`, sharing them with anyone interested in, also forcing myself to prepare them structurally and clearly.

I was a wild programmer who had a hometown, a motherland which gave me first passion. It's free and open-source software. I want to be a contributor, especially in the area of low-level programming. My first exposure to programming was installing Linux, according to a wiki page of the Physics Experiment Center of Fudan University. I never thought I would become a programmer before, but I was excited when I was in the loop of describing the problem, searching, doing experiments, and analyzing the outcome. I was fascinated; it was love at first sight. For me, the computer world is not just an exhausting swamp but a land with good engineering products, friendly communities, and meaningful things that one's own hands can craft. The Great Firewall always blocks the official documentation and repositories, so I bypassed it with free and open-source software. This experience gave me much confidence, and my standard ID `ofey404` is in memory of this (and Richard Feynman). I have become a computer head since then.

// qualificaiton（我做过的事情，比如困难的计算机课，等特别困难的事情。）做过实验、上过课，找过这个方向的实验室。linux 0.12 —— 10000。比我工作已经少了。2 年以前： xv6 —— 6000 行，很难理解，没有完全理解。现在已经感觉不是很难了。除了 OS 入门，还有编程能力——常识，能理解比较大的代码库。

// 这个东西很重要。我做这个很开心。更多主观的内容。既然如此，我要干嘛？contribute what to open source。非技术工作开始——文档翻译，是我现在在做的事情，翻译。未来，学完这个 master。

如果不考虑其他情况，我第一选择的事情

- 进入和开源有关的公司/组织
- 做相对能够对复杂系统有整体把握的工作，不限于操作系统，数据库、网络也是很复杂的系统。
- 如果说是开源项目的话，比较可能的是负责一个模块。也是能够有一定的整体观的一个工作吧。

整体观。

我想做的事情：是对复杂系统的整体把握。具体来讲是上面的几个可能可以做的事情。

已经做过的事情，挑战的事情——我有意愿和能力做某事。

- 大三的 OS，DS 课程
- 数据库公司的实习经历——挑战
- 计算机实验室

// craftsmanship：从学徒到大师

In my journey of programming, I constantly take challenges that push me to the limit. Two years ago, after I decided to take programming as a career, I chose two courses of our school's "excellent engineers" program - Data Structure and Operating System. My consideration was simple: if I cannot handle the workload of a kickstart, I had better give up the idea of being an excellent programmer. The courses were challenging, but I made it through. DS required us to complete 6 problems per week on onlinejudge.org and 3 on-course; I kept on pace and often worked out 2 or 3 out of 3 on-course problems. Thanks to the exercises on the DS course, I never specially prepared algorithm problems for a job interview. And the Operating System course is a beautiful experience - we use MIT's xv6 as teaching material. First time to dive into a well-written codebase larger than 1000 lines. It's like magic when it works under my fingertips. In the second half of the semester, the filesystem part, I encountered difficulties, but TA and my classmates were kind enough to help me. I made lots of friends in the OS lesson; when I heard one of my TA is working for PingCAP Inc., I wanted to have a try. I engaged in some of their community activities and emailed them my CV, and I got an interview chance. The interview included a programming assignment - implementing a toy proxy with Golang. I have one week to build this; however, I hardly know Golang at that time. Hacking in the convenience store under my dormitory, I submitted the assignment on the sixth day, and it turned out to be good - I got the job and found myself capable of it. Now I was reading the Linux 0.12 codebase (10000 lines). Two years ago, I had difficulties with xv6, but now I can ultimately hold the same scale codebase in my mind.

"The real ugliness lies in the relationship between the people who produce the technology and the things they produce, which results in a similar relationship between the people who use the technology and the things they use." like the quote from *Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance*, when the role of user and contributor are not separated, there would be healthier relationships which can produce public goods. I use Linux every day, so as various command-line tools, package managers, and so on. They make me happy, and memories about them are also delightful. That's the first reason that I want to contribute to free and open-source software. Last year I was really fascinated by a command line cheat sheet tool, and when I missed a functionality, [I added it](https://github.com/knqyf263/pet/pull/161) by myself in a night. Hacking is happy; when being helped by reading others' code, the happiness doubled. Besides, almost every programmer is benefited by some public goods, and I want to do something to generate them. Heard the news that OpenSSL is maintained by only one full-time contributor, I was shocked. It is like everyone benefits from the world tree, but only one gardener takes care of the root. I don't suppose volunteering is the only ethical or acceptable way since I have working experience, and I know the world is mainly shaped by economic activities. Free software [emphasizes social solidarity—that is, sharing and cooperation](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html), and open-source find a way to thrive along with the financial world. Those two groups of people, though their ideas vary, they all love programming and hacking, and they are producing public goods that we enjoy. Public goods never come from nothing. The previous generation contributed and left them to us. I feel obliged to do something to pass this computer world I loved to the next generation. After all, the open-source collaboration model is well-tested for large scale software engineering, and the computer industry today is just like Painting in the Renaissance or Physics in the early 20th century, it has a large capacity, it's broad-minded enough to accept various, ambitious people, let them do meaningful things. If I can get a job about free/open-source project, it's wonderful, and if I cannot do so, I could find a "daytime job" that would give me time and space to contribute to some public goods. And low-level tools, like network protocol or operating systems, have unique impacts compared with applications. Application seldom makes the computer more respect or despise its users, but low-level tools did. Low-level tools shape the computer world, and applications shape the rest.

// TODO: Why I want to take your program: deliver, community, and best transdisciplinary experiences

// 一些问题？我到底要干什么？不够具体（具体你要做什么，怎么实现

// 没有掌握到夸自己的技巧。介绍自己的 qualification。目前在暗示要做什么，但是没有明白地说出来。

I want to lead significant software projects, have a holistic view of the computer system. I want to do low-level works that can touch the heart of the computer, not limited to operating systems but networks or databases. My work at CS lab is working on a high-performance database, and I want to get my hands dirtier during my master's education. Besides, if I had any choice, I would like to work in an open-source company, since there are many in the area of the system software, or do an open-source related job. I want to follow the step of professionalism, be a reliable journeyman, then master. That's parallel to what I can do to free/open-source. I can contribute to non-technical works like translation and some issues that suit my knowledge level. Recently I joined GNU's Chinese translation mailing list and began to submit reviews. There is no wall around free/open-source projects, and I can learn the knowledge and engage in right now if I want to be a Linux contributor. I know the CMU database group has an open-source research program called Noisepage, which could be a good thing to start on.

// 底气不是很足？学校可以如何具体帮助你。

// 怎么利用好 master 这段经历。

## Project Specific Part

### Berkeley MEng.

The Engineering Leadership module *Ethics in Tech and Global Leadership*, *Communications* and *Industry Analysis* can help me. My ideas about the computer world and free/open sourced are unchecked. Formal education in technology ethics can help me to clarify those ideas. Besides, my teacher in the operating system had mentioned ethics in tech and said that our education missed that part, and I want to know more about it. Besides, the most common scenario I worked in is alone or in a small team, and sometimes I am too shy to make new connections. I want to pick up communication skills and how to work in a high performing team, and I want to build relations out of the classroom, with which your project can help me. And three out of four of my previous projects are research-oriented, and I didn't know very well what was happening in the real-life scenario, so I also want to take your *Industry Analysis* course.

The capstone project *Vision Correcting Display (advisor Prof. Brian Barsky)* attracts me because I have high order aberration. I'm glad to join a project caring about people like me. And I also have some own ideas about my capstone project. I can propose them on your website. First, I want to build a version control system for visual artists to introduce the collaboration model of free/open-source world to the artists since so many illustrators are using computer graphics. Illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* only share the final output, and if the history and version can be shared like code at Github, creating and learning artworks are easier. Digital illustrations are naturally redistributable, and we just miss a suitable tool to distribute them and collaborate around them. I missed the early dead Miura Kentaro, *Berserk*'s author, and the fan community can finish his posthumous work if we have a better collaboration model. In the time of Michelangelo, it's common for artists and apprentices to work on the same painting, but in today's manga and fan art, this collaboration is missing. What if we can provide them with handy tools, a free/open-source version control system on illustrations, and make the web a place of artists' global collaboration like programmers.
