SOP and PHS V2
==============

对 [./4-SOP-and-PHS.md](./4-SOP-and-PHS.md) 的修订。

## Personal History Statement

Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belif since my first exposure of programming - installing Linux by myself. The detailed documentation and friendly strangers impressed me, and I was fascinated by the sense of crafting meaningful things by one's own hand. As my interest in programming grew, I was more connected with the free/open-source software communities. I use Linux every day, build and study code from Github, and sometimes contribute to some small tools I like. I enjoy public goods produced by the Free/open-source community, so as most programmers. In my opinion, the heart of free/open-source collaboration is a healthy relationship between technology and people, developers and users. And it's the accessible version control systems, like git or svn, that make today's mass collaboration around the globe succeed. I have a dream, to pass this computer world I loved to the next generation, with more public goods and healthier relationships between people and technology.

I am also interested in art, that's why I came up with the idea of building a version control system for illustrators. I play bass and guitar, but what I care most is visual art like digital illustration or manga. This semester, I took a sketching lesson as a layman. As my skills grew, I realized it's important to observe experienced classmates, just like programmers studying open-source code. It's a pity there is no direct mass collaboration like Github in illustrators. I wonder if the insights in free/open-source collaboration could be applied to visual arts. What's more, according to Walter Benjamin, (tech) could capture a place of its own among the artistic processes. An accessible version control system may have new repercussions in visual art.

For two reasons, I believe that a version control system can benefit other creative works: First of all, coding is about managing cascading concepts and expressing them in the right and clear way. It's a common pattern in creative works, so version control could be a general way to manage materials. Besides, nowadays, creative works are unprecedented electronic-based, especially during the pandemic. With the proper software, they could be version-controlled. Also, I think it's feasible, because two years ago I introduced version control to the computational physics lab I worked then, and it turned out to be a real productivity tool. I set up a private Gitlab instance, gave lectures and wrote documentation for my colleagues. Some of them used it to manage code, some stored slides, notes or drafts of papers. It is active used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the invitation of their supervisor. Version control is a real treasure chest for creators since the workflow built around it has been well tested by the free/open-source community for years.

I constantly take challenges to expand my boundaries, and the VCS for illustrator would be another important step. When I decided to take programming as a career seriously in my junior year, I took two courses from the Department of CS's honors program: Data Structure and Operating System. They were designed for sophomore or higher CS major students, but I thought I had better sink or swim. In the same semester, I needed to take hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics and Quantum Mechanics, but I managed to survive and got a real kickstart. Thanks to the exercises on the DS course, I never specially prepared algorithm problems for job interviews. In Operating System, I dive into MIT's xv6 - the first codebase I read over 1000 lines. I made lots of friends in those courses, so when one of my TA said he was working for PingCAP Inc., I decided to have a try. By engaging in their community events, I got an interview chance. As part of the interview, I was assigned to build a proxy with several error injection functionalities in one week. But I had never coded any significant thing with Golang then. Hacking in the convenience store under my dormitory, I submitted the assignment on the sixth day. Finally, I won the job and happily found myself competent at it.

I put significant effort into collaboration, and those experiences are useful if I want to make a successful VCS. In my freshman year, I recorded experiment videos as a TA of SOC lab so that newcomers could watch them even I left. After I got my own projects, "More is different" is the very thing I understood in my switch to engineering. I picked up the habit of organizing my work in a GitHub repository during my internship in PingCAP Inc., and it turned out to be a bonus in my recent research with a doctoral student. Sticking to my discipline, I use issues and pull requests to collaborate with my partner, record reasons for technical decisions, and do code reviews to remove unnecessary parts. When another graduated student came to this small team, I found that there were always web pages I could refer to when he had doubts. Many of them even contained details I forgot. Besides, I was also willing to share my knowledge. For about two years, I volunteered at PC Service Group, giving consultancy to my schoolmates on python. During my application, I shared all my materials on a public Github repository with anyone interested. As Richard Feynman said, teaching is the best learning.

(TODO: a ending based on this)I have a dream, to pass this computer world I loved to the next generation, with more public goods and healthier relationships between people and technology.