*This is the first PS I've written.*

I'm Weiwen Chen, 23 years old, equipped with a ThinkPad T14 with fedora linux 34. Five years studying physics, I started programming four years ago and was totally fascinated. I have work experience in three labs, two of them are closely related to computer hardware and software, and I also have been an intern of an open source database company PingCAP. However, I never thought I would become a programmer before 18, until I met linux. From a tiny manual page on the wiki of Physics Experiment Center, I went across the Great Firewall with the help of free software, becoming an enthusiast then a professional (though immature) programmer.

Now I am urged to get a master degree of computer science, there are multiple calls driving me. I am longing for the best computer science courses, just like those moocs I've finished from the world's top CS schools. I also desired a solid knowledge which can make me capable of the deepest forest of system and low-level programming areas. I want to have the capability to help the free and open source community, since they produced so much common good and enlightened my digital life, I should help.

The Internet, Chinese part in the first 10 years of 21st century, is the place that I grown up. I only use computer 30 minutes per week, according to an agreement with my father who thought things on the web are craps. I partially agree with him, though he knew nothing about tech. Chinese part of the Internet is not a geek-friendly place, especially ten years ago. It lack public utilities. If you search anything about tech, you would get a list of advertisements or bad-written blog posts which allures you to bad training classes. Official documentations would be behind three or more pages, often blocked by the Great Firewall, leaving a swamp of crude digital entertainment, pop ups and virus files. I would rather do something more meaningful than scavenge in a trash can, so I participated in Chinese Physics Olympiad at high school, then entered Fudan University, department of physics. There were some clues, like unusual passion I had on programmable calculator used in Physics Olympiad, or my taste of books like *Hacker and Painter*, *Neuromancer* or *Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance*, but I never weaved all things together.


