Johns Hopkins
=============

## Statement of Purpose

The Statement of Purpose requirement varies by program; check the instructions onyour degree program website to see if it is required or for specific criteria, if available.

Discuss your academic and career objectives.

- [x] Be specific about the field in which you plan to study and your research interests.
- [x] Describe your preparation for your proposed program of study,
  - [x] beyond what is apparent from your transcripts.
- [ ] This can include 
  - [x] research projects you have undertaken or participated in,
  - [ ] language preparation,
  - [x] or other academic training.

比较倾向于 academic，可以关注一下学校的学术资源。

### FAQ

https://www.cs.jhu.edu/academic-programs/graduate-studies/mse-programs/mse-faqs/

How do you weigh other experience, such as research, projects, or employment?

Previous research experience is the easiest way to be placed on the top of the applicant interest list. For this reason we encourage you to send a link to detailed information on your past research experience if you have any. Projects performed for classes, as part of a job, or on your own are also important, in particular if the projects are research-related. Make sure to include a description of these projects with your application – better yet is a link to an online file. Previous teaching experience also improves your chances.

## Main

Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. In my opinion, the heart of free/open-source collaboration is the way people work together, a healthy relationship. In the age of remote work, it's time to apply insights from free/open-source software to other non-CS areas. I want to build an open-source version control system for digital illustrations.

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. I explored popular illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* while learning to sketch, but artworks are shared in the final output figure file format, rather than shared by source like *GitHub*. Illustrators could have all merits programmers have enjoyed in open-source collaboration if the right tool is put into their hands.

Among all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Compared with online documents or sharing project files directly, VCS enables asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which can be the foundation of a productive community willing to share. Besides, only a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

As Walter Benjamin said, tech could capture a place of its own among the artistic processes. With an accessible VCS, enthusiasts could study exactly how professionals work. Remote artists can work together, just like Michelangelo and his apprentices working on the same mural. What's more, VCS would go further beyond yet another productivity tool, even beyond an art academy without walls. "Given enough eyeballs, all innovations will come out," by unleashing the power of social collaboration, a healthy community could make unprecedented large-scale projects. This idea first hit me when I was shocked by the early death of Miura Kentaro, author of the famous manga *Berserk*. If there were a VCS, more posthumous or unfinished works would have a second life.

Version control is a real treasure chest for all kinds of creators, and I started to understand this two years ago, when I set up a *Gitlab* instance for my colleagues in the computational physics lab I worked then. After I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, some started to manage code, some stored slides, notes, or even paper drafts. It is actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the invitation of their supervisor. In a word, coding is about managing cascading concepts, which is a common pattern in creative works. The workflow built around version control is well tested by decades of free/open-source collaboration, and creators would discover new ways to utilize the power.

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and making it through. After I decided to take programming seriously, I pushed myself to sink-or-swim. Two honors program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, designed for sophomore or higher CS major students, that's what I took, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. I managed to survive, got a real kickstart, and in addition, made lots of friends. My passionate and agile hacking style was formed in my PingCAP intern days. The job interview task is to build a proxy with several error injection functionalities, within one week. With few Golang experience then, I kept hacking in the convenience store under my dormitory, submitted the assignment on the sixth day. I won the job, and happily found myself competent. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I love programming, I want to be great at the risk of failing noisily, and I know that Stanford is the place for challengers with crazy ideas.

I won't work alone. I have rich collaboration experiences, and my understanding on it would help me design a successful VCS. Collaboration is even more powerful when it happens asynchronously and automatically. My experiment video recorded in SOC lab helped many newcomers, far beyond my expectations. In my recent research, the habit of organizing work with *GitHub* turned out to be a bonus, because there are always so many lucrative pages I can refer to - issues, pull requests, code review, and technical decisions. Besides, all free/open-source lovers know public good doesn't come from the void, and I'm willing to generate some. I volunteered at PC Service Group for about two years as a python consultant. And I published all my application materials on a public *GitHub* repository, to anyone interested. In the school so-called "a tech incubator with a football team," I can work with the best and the brightest, as well as sharpen the soft skills I urgently need - business knowledge, industry insights, and so on.

Stanford won my respect by the mass public goods it created, I believe my project would benefit from and contribute to the atmosphere of public, transparent and accessible. During the pandemic I took Stanford CS 144, the quality and the accessibility of materials really impressed me. And in the ongoing open science movement, Stanford is leading the dissemination of knowledge. "different thinking" or entrepreneurship is not enough to describe Stanford. Openness can be a unique power to shape the world, so that's why I'm longing a chance to study in your program.

And I bring a detailed roadmap, if I have the honor to be accepted. To deliver my VCS, I would dual in primary IMA and secondary HCI. First, CS 245, 346 could give me a solid understanding on cutting-edge data management. Besides, according to my prior experience on database, I would like to waive CS 145 to take CS 395: Independent Database Project as an additional course, and make my VCS as a capstone project on CS 395. In HCI secondary, I would take ARTSTUDI179 Digital Art I from area (g). Also, I consider CS 240 and 249 in IMA to sharpen my low-level programming skill.

I am an indie hacker, but I'm not Athena who was born full-grown - I started programming at the age of 18. The only thing I'm sure of is that I would be somebody, early or late, in the software industry. And I applied for your renowned MSCS project to grow faster. I believe I will be a valuable asset to the project.

## EndMain


### Faculty

两个和我方向接近的 lab 以及教授：

http://intuitivecomputing.jhu.edu/index.html

INTUITIVE COMPUTING LABORATORY

INNOVATING INTUITIVE, INTERACTIVE TECHNOLOGIES THAT COMPLEMENT AND AUGMENT PEOPLE

@ JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY

----

https://orderlab.io

top-notch systems researchers.

----

https://www.cs.jhu.edu/faculty/chien-ming-huang/

Huang directs Johns Hopkins’ interdisciplinary Intuitive Computing Laboratory and is a member of JHU’s Malone Center for Engineering in Healthcare and the Laboratory for Computational Sensing and Robotics. 

----

https://www.cs.jhu.edu/faculty/peng-ryan-huang/

Ryan (Peng) Huang, an assistant professor of computer science, is known for his work on the reliability of next-generation operating systems and distributed systems.


其他备选教授：

https://www.cs.jhu.edu/faculty/soudeh-ghorbani/

Soudeh Ghorbani, an assistant professor of computer science, designs and builds reliable network systems with provable guarantees, drawing techniques from formal methods, distributed systems, and control theory.

----

https://www.cs.jhu.edu/faculty/david-hovemeyer/

David Hovemeyer is an associate teaching professor in the Department of Computer Science. He focuses on static analysis, systems software, and computer science education.

----