Statement of Purpose
====================

因为学校注重研究，所以开头稍微改一下。

有两个实验室和我的方向比较接近，在 path 部分重点强调。

## Main

Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. In my opinion, the heart of free/open-source collaboration is the way people work together, a healthy relationship. In the age of remote work, it's time to apply insights from free/open-source software to other non-CS areas. I am interested in the descipline of Information Management System, and I want to build an open-source version control system for digital illustrations.

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. I explored popular illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* while learning to sketch, but artworks are shared in the final output figure file format, rather than shared by source like *GitHub*. Illustrators could have all merits programmers have enjoyed in open-source collaboration if the right tool is put into their hands.

Among all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Compared with online documents or sharing project files directly, VCS enables asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which can be the foundation of a productive community willing to share. Besides, only a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

As Walter Benjamin said, tech could capture a place of its own among the artistic processes. With an accessible VCS, enthusiasts could study exactly how professionals work. Remote artists can work together, just like Michelangelo and his apprentices working on the same mural. What's more, VCS would go further beyond yet another productivity tool, even beyond an art academy without walls. "Given enough eyeballs, all innovations will come out," by unleashing the power of social collaboration, a healthy community could make unprecedented large-scale projects. This idea first hit me when I was shocked by the early death of Miura Kentaro, author of the famous manga *Berserk*. If there were a VCS, more posthumous or unfinished works would have a second life.

Version control is a real treasure chest for all kinds of creators, and I started to understand this two years ago, when I set up a *Gitlab* instance for my colleagues in the computational physics lab I worked then. After I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, some started to manage code, some stored slides, notes, or even paper drafts. It is actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the invitation of their supervisor. In a word, coding is about managing cascading concepts, which is a common pattern in creative works. The workflow built around version control is well tested by decades of free/open-source collaboration, and creators would discover new ways to utilize the power.

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and making it through. After I decided to take programming seriously, I pushed myself to sink-or-swim. Two honors program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, designed for sophomore or higher CS major students, that's what I took, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. I managed to survive, got a real kickstart, and in addition, made lots of friends. My passionate and agile hacking style was formed in my PingCAP intern days. The job interview task is to build a proxy with several error injection functionalities, within one week. With few Golang experience then, I kept hacking in the convenience store under my dormitory, submitted the assignment on the sixth day. I won the job, and happily found myself competent. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I love programming, I want to be great at the risk of failing noisily.

I won't work alone. I have rich collaboration experiences, and my understanding on it would help me design a successful VCS. Collaboration is even more powerful when it happens asynchronously and automatically. My experiment video recorded in SOC lab helped many newcomers, far beyond my expectations. In my recent research, the habit of organizing work with *GitHub* turned out to be a bonus, because there are always so many lucrative pages I can refer to - issues, pull requests, code review, and technical decisions. Besides, all free/open-source lovers know public good doesn't come from the void, and I'm willing to generate some. I volunteered at PC Service Group for about two years as a python consultant. And I published all my application materials on a public *GitHub* repository, to anyone interested.

In the long run, an open-source leader is what I want to be. This path needs more than just devotion, but also maturity in engineering and a holistic understanding of technical, economic, and social issues. I believe JHU could be my portal to larger context, connecting to the widest possible array of experts, facilities and resources. And I'm interested in your Intuitive Computing Laboratory, for my long term goal is also empower and augment people.

I bring a roadmap, if I have the honor to be accepted. I want to deliver my VCS, so I would start searching a supervisor early, especially in the research area of Database and Information Systems. I would take 601.457 COMPUTER GRAPHICS and 601.501 COMPUTER SCIENCE WORKSHOP, sharpen my idea and propose it as a workshop project. And the Ordered System Lab would also be the perfect place for me to seek adversory and technical support.

I am an indie hacker, but I'm not Athena who was born full-grown - I started programming at the age of 18. The only thing I'm sure of is that I would be somebody, early or late, in the descipline of computer science. And I applied for your renowned MCS project to grow faster. I believe I will be a valuable asset to the project.

## EndMain

