SOP & PHS
=========

> Please respond to the following. Your statement can be up to 500 words in length. You do not need to answer every question; focus on the elements that you feel are most relevant to your candidacy.

## Statement of Purpose

- [x] What is your purpose in applying for graduate study in your specified degree program?
  - Describe your area(s) of interest, including any subfield(s) or interdisciplinary interests.
- [x] What experiences have prepared you for advanced study or research in this degree program?
  - What relevant skills have you gained from these experiences?
  - Have your experiences led to specific or tangible outcomes that would support your potential to contribute to this field (examples: performances, publications, presentations, awards or recognitions)?
- [x] What additional information about your past experience may aid the selection committee in evaluating your preparation and aptitude for graduate study at UCLA?
  - For example, you may wish to describe research, employment, teaching, service, artistic or international experiences through which you have developed skills in leadership, communication, project management, teamwork, or other areas.
- [ ] Why is the UCLA graduate program to which you are applying is the best place for you to pursue your academic goals?
  - If you are applying for a research master’s or doctoral program, we encourage you to indicate specific research interests and **potential faculty mentors**.
- [ ] What are your plans for your career after earning this degree?

## Personal Statement

- [ ] Are there educational, personal, cultural, economic, or social experiences, not described in your Statement of Purpose, that have shaped your academic journey?
  - If so, how?
  - Have any of these experiences provided unique perspective(s) that you would contribute to your program, field or profession?
- [x] Describe challenge(s) or barriers that you have faced in your pursuit of higher education. What motivated you to persist, and how did you overcome them?
  - What is the evidence of your persistence, progress or success?
- [ ] How have your life experiences and educational background informed your understanding of the barriers facing groups that are underrepresented in higher education?
- [ ] How have you been actively engaged (e.g., through participation, employment, service, teaching or other activities) in programs or activities focused on increasing participation by groups that have been historically underrepresented in higher education?
- [x] How do you intend to engage in scholarly discourse, research, teaching, creative efforts, and/or community engagement during your graduate program that have the potential to advance diversity and equal opportunity in higher education?
- [x] How do you see yourself contributing to diversity in your profession after you earn your advanced degree at UCLA?


## Main

### Statement of Purpose

- What is your purpose

My short-term goal is to build an open-source version control system for digital illustrations. In the long run, my goal is to be an open-source leader, focusing on disseminating knowledge. Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. And in the age of remote work, it's time to apply free/open-source software insights to other non-CS areas. 

- Past experiences

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. I explored popular illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* while learning to sketch, but artworks are shared in the final output figure file format, rather than shared by source like *GitHub*. Illustrators could have all merits programmers have enjoyed in open-source collaboration if the right tool is put into their hands.

Among all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Compared with online documents or sharing project files directly, VCS enables asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which can be the foundation of a productive community willing to share. Besides, only a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

Version control is a real treasure chest for all kinds of creators, and I started to understand this two years ago, when I set up a *Gitlab* instance for my colleagues in the computational physics lab I worked then. After I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, some started to manage code, some stored slides, notes, or even paper drafts. It is actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the invitation of their supervisor. In a word, coding is about managing cascading concepts, which is a common pattern in creative works. The workflow built around version control is well tested by decades of free/open-source collaboration, and creators would discover new ways to utilize the power.

- Why CS

Besides, by introducing version control to the computational physics lab two years ago, I found version control a real treasure chest even for non-CS creators. At first, I set a *Gitlab* instance for myself, but after I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, my colleague started to utilize it in various ways: managing code, sharing slides, or even writing a paper together. It's actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the supervisor's invitation. This experience made me feel it's possible to unleash the power for the artist community through an open-source version control system for illustrations, which will be discussed detailed in part 2.

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and pushing myself to sink-or-swim. I bootstrap myself in programming, by taking two honours program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. To win my PingCAP intern, I took up their assignment with Golang, which I was unfamiliar with then, kept hacking in the convenience store under the dormitory for a week, and submitted the assignment ahead of time. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I program with love, and I want to do great at the risk of failing noisily.

- Why Program.
  - IDM lab and CV lab
  - Breads requirement, capstone

> This gives you an advantage over other engineers who know little about computer architecture, networking, and systems when you pivot to become a specialized engineer
> 
> Your first year will be tough.
> 
> Classes are very theoretical. 

I bring my roadmap, if I have the honor to be accepted. Being interested in Frank-Ratchye Studio, I would try to engage in its cross-disciplinary collaboration early. Besides, the software practicum is the perfect environment to transform my VCS into real-life product.

- Potential faculty mentors.

- Plans for your career.

In the long run, an open-source leader needs more than devotion, but maturity in engineering and a deep understanding of technical, economic, and social issues. I belive MSE-SS's focus on best practice and hands-on mentorship would give me a solid skillset. Besides, as community is just as important as code for open-source projects, courses like communication would fit my arsenal.

### Personal Statement

- Shaped your journey

Linux

Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. In my opinion, the heart of free/open-source collaboration is the way people work together, a healthy relationship.

- Challange and motivation in education

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and pushing myself to sink-or-swim. I bootstrap myself in programming, by taking two honours program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. To win my PingCAP intern, I took up their assignment with Golang, which I was unfamiliar with then, kept hacking in the convenience store under the dormitory for a week, and submitted the assignment ahead of time. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I program with love, and I want to do great at the risk of failing noisily.

- Diversity and equal opportunity.

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. I explored popular illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* while learning to sketch, but artworks are shared in the final output figure file format, rather than shared by source like *GitHub*. Illustrators could have all merits programmers have enjoyed in open-source collaboration if the right tool is put into their hands.

Among all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Compared with online documents or sharing project files directly, VCS enables asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which can be the foundation of a productive community willing to share. Besides, only a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

- How to contribute to diversity?

"Information is power," Aaron Swartz said, and that's what I understand directly and personally. The first thing I hacked was "One Piece". I finished all episodes on a Hong Kong channel in 2006, after government banned imported anime from prime time. Aiqing park is an abandoned park I played in as a kid. I wondered why it lay waste until I found that the poet's son was China's most controversial artist.

I won't be another brick in the wall, a self-serving elite, because I know how information is poisoned and people are divided. My VCS project is focused on disseminating knowledge, and I believe I can motivate my classmates to be more informed citizens.

## EndMain

- UCLA CV and CG lab: http://gravilab.cs.ucla.edu
- Graduate Student Handbook: https://www.cs.ucla.edu/graduate-student-handbook/