Statement of Purpose
====================

## Main

### Part 1: Experience and Background

### End1

I have 2 team oriented development experiences worth to mention.

Experience 1: My first stand alone project under the guidance of my mentor. 最后被广泛部署了。

- Purpose:
  - 工程化
  - mentorship
  - Good experience. Good first project

Experience 2: Recent research on lab. It delayed, not very successful.

- Purpose:
  - Not best practices, I made lots of mistakes.
  - I don't have enough skill, from design to progress management.
  - I don't take enough responsibility to own it.

And my most challenging issue(On experience 2): How to work on other's codebase. When the codebase is not structural enough. How do I survive in the wild and build up my own infra. How to survive in the wild.

### Part 2: Purpose, Goals, and Achievements

Purpose and goal: Make an open-source version control system for digital illustrations.

Achievement:

- Challange taker
- apply to non-cs descipline
- Collaboration

How the program, and CMU more generally, alligns with your personal objectives:

- Hands-on approach, real world challange.
- *Intensive Practicum* part would give me a chance to build my project.
  - Study my idea, find real-world problem, form a high-energy team to push it forward.

### End2

## EndMain

## Part 1: Experience and Background

**Experience 1: Develop mult tenant on mica.**

Keyword: Learn from failure(?)

- Experimental codebase.
- C++, DPDK
- Me and a doctral student
- One of two programmers, developer of the server side, dive into low level details.

- Initiate:
- Where it succeed:
  - Finally it turn out to be something.
- Where did it fail:
  - Not best practices, I made lots of mistakes.

Most challenging issue: How to work on other's codebase. When the codebase is not structural enough. How do I survive in the wild and build up my own infra. How to survive in the wild.

----

**Experience 2: Develop Metrics-checker in Internship**

Metrics checker project is the first project designed individually, and would be deployed to product environment. I engage in the whole cycle, take the study, design, implementation and integration task.

Leadership is about asking the right question.

- Internal tool, infra, cloud environment
- Golang, k8s, Prometheus
- Me and my mentor
  - mentorship is quite important
- First project under mentorship.
  - Good experience.
  - Considerable output.

----

**Requirements:**

Team oriented development experiences.

- Nature of project
- Technologies involved
- Engineer in team
- Role and responsibilities

The most challenging issue in any project you have been involved with.

Optional:

- What activities did you initiate, and how?
- ... did you support and how?
- Where did the project succeed?
- Where did it fail, what did you learn, what would you do differently and how?

## Part 2: Purpose, Goals, and Achievements

**Requirements:**

Short/long term goals.

How the program, and CMU more generally, alligns with your personal objectives.

Optional:

- Awards, publications, additional informations

## Materials

> What I would like to mention that, IMO, made the experience at CMU SV a very positive one, is the fact that the program is run through a very "hands-on" approach. 

> You'll do a lot of reading that will be directly applicable to the projects you'll be working on. Faculty are more like mentors, not teachers. Your assignments will be reviewed progressively and graded like so.

https://qr.ae/pGl0mi

----

> it focuses on teaching you the best practices of software development and how those can be used in the industry. So you have to justify why you want to learn this and why you are a suitable candidate.

https://qr.ae/pGl0qo

----

A Taiwanese's review: https://media.nexf.org/cmu-master-of-software-engineering/

----

Negative example: https://essayforum.com/graduate/sop-review-cmu-master-software-engineering-mse-88398/

> You have presented yourself as a well trained applicant, who is lacking in an actual purpose, 

Valuable questions:

- Where is the purpose? 
- What course are you enrolling it? 
- How does it apply to your current job or future goals? 
- What school are you applying to? 
- How does the school answer your demand for technical training and theoretical knowledge?
