Statement of Purpose
====================

## Part 1: Experience and Background

"More is different." that's the very thing I understand after I switch from natural science to engineering. Developing software is not a noun; instead, it's a verb phrase, composed with two factor: technology and people. And today my stories are about various collaboration and technical decisions.

In QA team of PingCAP, I sold the idea of metrics-checker to my colleagues by research and presentation, and delivered it with close collaboration of my mentor Shaowen. It was a test infra written in Golang, based on my observation that some metrics in TiDB can reveal test coverage. To prove it's beneficial and viable, I studied existed optional solution like prometheus's AlertManager, and made a presentation on daily stand-up. I own the task, and deliver it with intensive requirement collection, study open-source code, design and redesign, while my mentor observed and judged my decision by constant code review.

And the metrics-checker went far beyond my expectation by its flexibility, from which I learnt a good design can do more with less. By offloading logic to yaml config file, the checker itself acts as an executor, which made it data-driven and easy to deploy. Also, the separation of mechanism and strategy make it easy to be applied to other task. It turned out to be a handy tool, widely deployed in the test pipeline, and still maintained and upgraded even after I left.

Besides, by introducing version control to the computational physics lab two years ago, I found version control a real treasure chest even for non-CS creators. At first, I set a *Gitlab* instance for myself, but after I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, my colleague started to utilize it in various ways: managing code, sharing slides, or even writing a paper together. It's actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the supervisor's invitation. This experience made me feel it's possible to unleash the power for the artist community through an open-source version control system for illustrations, which will be discussed detailed in part 2.

In DASLab, I still enriching my collaboration experience, but also encountered a most challanging technical decision. I was developing multi-tenant KV there with a doctral student, based on an 2014 CMU KV MICA written in C++ and DPDK.

My habit of organizing work with *GitHub* make communication effective. I took the responsibility of the low-level programming part while my partner did the machine learning. We synced progress, recorded technical decisions, and shared knowledge with wiki pages. It turned out to be a bonus when another graduated student joined, because there are always so many lucrative pages I can refer to - issues, pull requests, code review, and so on.

However, the most challenging issue I have ever encountered lay in this project: How to get things done over an imperfect project. With few documentation and tests, and tight time constraint, I faced a dilemma: an overhaul of test for reliable code was time-consuming, but if I made a quick and dirty prototype but failed, I couldn't afford the time loss. I tilted at windmills with all formal methods I know, made a painful decision of refactoring. But the refactor never really finished, because it was almost equal to totally changing the codebase's nature. Finally, I had to admit the delay in a strong result-oriented research project.

If I could say one thing to my past self, I would say, tech debt is not a prohibition but a tool, if used wisely. Also, if I knew more about software engineering then, I might come up with the "tracer bullets code" method. Write simple structure code to keep, rather than a disposable prototype, since immediate feedback is crucial When facing an unknown target. Real-life engineering is an art of balacing, and I'm longing to learn more in your program.

## Part 2: Purpose, Goals, and Achievements

My short-term goal is to build an open-source version control system for digital illustrations. In the long run, my goal is to be an open-source leader, focusing on disseminating knowledge. Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. And in the age of remote work, it's time to apply free/open-source software insights to other non-CS areas. 

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. Compared with all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, like shared storage workspace, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Artist communities could enjoy the merit of asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which are well tested. Besides, a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

As Walter Benjamin said, tech could capture a place of its own among the artistic processes. With an accessible VCS, enthusiasts could study exactly how professionals work. Remote artists can work together, just like Michelangelo and his apprentices working on the same mural. What's more, VCS would go further beyond yet another productivity tool, even beyond an art academy without walls. "Given enough eyeballs, all innovations will come out," by unleashing the power of social collaboration, a healthy community could make unprecedented large-scale projects. This idea first hit me when I was shocked by the early death of Miura Kentaro, author of the famous manga *Berserk*. If there were a VCS, more posthumous or unfinished works would have a second life.

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and pushing myself to sink-or-swim. I bootstrap myself in programming, by taking two honours program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. To win my PingCAP intern, I took up their assignment with Golang, which I was unfamiliar with then, kept hacking in the convenience store under the dormitory for a week, and submitted the assignment ahead of time. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I program with love, and I want to do great at the risk of failing noisily.

CMU won my respect by the mass public goods it created: I enjoyed Andy Pavlo's Advanced Database Systems during the pandemic; the quality and accessibility impressed me. Also, the OSSTA report (Open Source Software Toolkits for the Arts) by the Frank-Ratchye STUDIO was one of the most valuable pieces of documentation I read about art and technology.

I bring my roadmap, if I have the honor to be accepted. Being interested in Frank-Ratchye Studio, I would try to engage in its cross-disciplinary collaboration early. Besides, the software practicum is the perfect environment to transform my VCS into real-life product.

In the long run, an open-source leader needs more than devotion, but maturity in engineering and a deep understanding of technical, economic, and social issues. I belive MSE-SS's focus on best practice and hands-on mentorship would give me a solid skillset. Besides, as community is just as important as code for open-source projects, courses like communication would fit my arsenal.

I am an indie hacker, but I'm not Athena who was born full-grown - I started programming at the age of 18. The only thing I'm sure of is that I would be somebody, early or late, in the software industry. And I applied for your renowned MSE project to grow faster. I believe I will be a valuable asset to the project.
