Statement of Purpose
====================

## Main

### Part 1: Experience and Background



### End1

### Part 2: Purpose, Goals, and Achievements

### End2

## EndMain

A Taiwanese's review: https://media.nexf.org/cmu-master-of-software-engineering/

----

Negative example: https://essayforum.com/graduate/sop-review-cmu-master-software-engineering-mse-88398/

> You have presented yourself as a well trained applicant, who is lacking in an actual purpose, 


### Part 1: Experience and Background

**Experience 1: Develop mult tenant on mica.**

Keyword: Learn from failure(?)

- Experimental codebase.
- C++, DPDK
- Me and a doctral student
- One of two programmers, developer of the server side, dive into low level details.

- Initiate:
- Where it succeed:
  - Finally it turn out to be something.
- Where did it fail:
  - Not best practices, I made lots of mistakes.

----

> it focuses on teaching you the best practices of software development and how those can be used in the industry. So you have to justify why you want to learn this and why you are a suitable candidate.

https://qr.ae/pGl0qo

----

**Experiment 2: Develop Metrics-checker in Internship**

Keyword: success, with the guidance of my mentor.


**Team oriented**

----

Team oriented development experiences.

- Nature of project
- Technologies involved
- Engineer in team
- Role and responsibilities

The most challenging issue in any project you have been involved with.

Optional:

- What activities did you initiate, and how?
- ... did you support and how?
- Where did the project succeed?
- Where did it fail, what did you learn, what would you do differently and how?

### Part 2: Purpose, Goals, and Achievements

> What I would like to mention that, IMO, made the experience at CMU SV a very positive one, is the fact that the program is run through a very "hands-on" approach. 

> You'll do a lot of reading that will be directly applicable to the projects you'll be working on. Faculty are more like mentors, not teachers. Your assignments will be reviewed progressively and graded like so.

https://qr.ae/pGl0mi

----

Short/long term goals.

How the program, and CMU more generally, alligns with your personal objectives.

Optional:

- Awards, publications, additional informations


