Berkeley MEng
=============

### Statement of Purpose

Please describe
- [x] your aptitude and motivation for graduate study in your area of specialization
- [x] including your preparation for this field of study
- [x] your academic plans or research interests
- [x] and your future career goals.

Please be specific about why UC Berkeley would be a good intellectual fit for you.

### Personal History Statement

Please describe how your personal background and experiences influenced your decision to pursue a graduate degree.

In this section, you may **also** include any relevant information on the following:

(Please note that the Personal History Statement should not duplicate the Statement of Purpose)

- [ ] How you have overcome barriers to access higher education
- [x] How you have come to understand the barriers faced by others
- [ ] Your academic service to advance equitable access to higher education for women, racial minorities and individuals from other groups that have been historically underrepresented in higher education
- [ ] Your research focusing on under served populations or related issues of inequality
- [ ] Your leadership among such groups

### Video

Please upload a 1-2 minute video or audio file on the Audio/Visual page explaining how you have solved an engineering problem.


## Main

### Statement of Purpose

Technology should help people develop themselves and connect together. I hold this belief since my first exposure to programming - installing Linux with the help of friendly strangers on the web. In my opinion, the heart of free/open-source collaboration is the way people work together, a healthy relationship. In the age of remote work, it's time to apply insights from free/open-source software to other non-CS areas. I want to build an open-source version control system for digital illustrations.

Digital illustration creation has adopted CS as a core methodology, but mass social collaboration is yet to come. As a fan of visual art, I explored popular illustration sharing sites like *pixiv* while learning to sketch, but artworks are shared in the final output figure file format, rather than shared by source like *GitHub*. Illustrators could have all merits programmers have enjoyed in open-source collaboration if the right tool is put into their hands.

Among all possible solutions of visual artists' remote collaboration, open-source VCS would lead to a free and unified ecosystem. Compared with online documents or sharing project files directly, VCS enables asynchronous and fine-grained cooperation, which can be the foundation of a productive community willing to share. Besides, only a company-neutral open-source project can be compatible with all competing file formats. It's for the good of all creators, not just for specific drawing software producers.

As Walter Benjamin said, tech could capture a place of its own among the artistic processes. With an accessible VCS, enthusiasts could study exactly how professionals work. Remote artists can work together, just like Michelangelo and his apprentices working on the same mural. What's more, VCS would go further beyond yet another productivity tool, even beyond an art academy without walls. "Given enough eyeballs, all innovations will come out," by unleashing the power of social collaboration, a healthy community could make unprecedented large-scale projects. This idea first hit me when I was shocked by the early death of Miura Kentaro, author of the famous manga *Berserk*. If there were a VCS, more posthumous or unfinished works would have a second life.

Version control is a real treasure chest for all kinds of creators, and I started to understand this two years ago, when I set up a *Gitlab* instance for my colleagues in the computational physics lab I worked then. After I gave several lectures and wrote documentation, some started to manage code, some stored slides, notes, or even paper drafts. It is actively used even after I left, and last month I gave a lecture about git to their newcomers at the invitation of their supervisor. In a word, coding is about managing cascading concepts, which is a common pattern in creative works. The workflow built around version control is well tested by decades of free/open-source collaboration, and creators would discover new ways to utilize the power.

All those sound like yet another crazy idea, but I am used to taking up challenges and making it through. After I decided to take programming seriously, I pushed myself to sink-or-swim. Two honors program courses, Data Structure and Operating System, designed for sophomore or higher CS major students, that's what I took, while dealing with hardcore physics courses like Electrodynamics. I managed to survive, got a real kickstart, and in addition, made lots of friends. My passionate and agile hacking style was formed in my PingCAP intern days. The job interview task is to build a proxy with several error injection functionalities, within one week. With few Golang experience then, I kept hacking in the convenience store under my dormitory, submitted the assignment on the sixth day. I won the job, and happily found myself competent. What's more, I do not program for prestige and stability, because nobody chooses physics for those either. I love programming, I want to be great at the risk of failing noisily.

I won't work alone. I have rich collaboration experiences, and my understanding on it would help me design a successful VCS. Collaboration is even more powerful when it happens asynchronously and automatically. My experiment video recorded in SOC lab helped many newcomers, far beyond my expectations. In my recent research, the habit of organizing work with *GitHub* turned out to be a bonus, because there are always so many lucrative pages I can refer to - issues, pull requests, code review, and technical decisions. Besides, all free/open-source lovers know public good doesn't come from the void, and I'm willing to generate some. I volunteered at PC Service Group for about two years as a python consultant. And I published all my application materials on a public *GitHub* repository, to anyone interested.

In the long run, an open-source leader is what I want to be. This path needs more than just devotion, but also maturity in engineering and a holistic understanding of technical, economic, and social issues. I believe UCSB could be my portal to larger context, connecting to the widest possible array of experts, facilities and resources.

And I bring a detailed roadmap, if I have the honor to be accepted. To build my muscle for real world problems, I would choose Systems as my major area, and complete the program with my VCS project. I would take CS 274 Advanced Topics in Database Systems and CS 280 Computer Graphics early, to build a solid knowledge base on data management. The first year would be tough, but I plan to search for my research advisor early. In the faculties the Database and Information Systems research area, I could find my mentor of 596 Directed Research and final project.

I applied for your renowned MSCS project to grow faster. I am an indie hacker, but I'm not Athena who was born full-grown - I started programming at the age of 18. The only thing I'm sure of is that I would be somebody, early or late, in the software industry. I believe I will be a valuable asset to the project.

### Personal History Statement

"More is different." that's the very thing I understand after I switch from natural science to engineering. Developing software is not a noun; instead, it's a verb phrase, composed with two complicated factor: technology and people.  And my journey is guided by them.

In QA team of PingCAP, I sold the idea of metrics-checker to my colleagues by research and presentation, and delivered it with close collaboration of my mentor Shaowen. It was a test infra written in Golang, based on my observation that some metrics in TiDB can reveal test coverage. To prove it's beneficial and viable, I studied existed optional solution like prometheus's AlertManager, and made a presentation on daily stand-up. I own the task, and deliver it with intensive requirement collection, study open-source code, design and redesign, while my mentor observed and judged my decision by constant code review. Though it's a small team, I got an hand-on experience on what teamwork can produce.

I also learnt a good design can do more with less through the outcome of metrics-checker, which went far beyond my expectation by its flexibility. By offloading logic to yaml config file, the checker itself acts as an executor, which made it data-driven and easy to deploy. Also, the separation of mechanism and strategy make it easy to be applied to other task. It turned out to be a handy tool, widely deployed in the test pipeline, and still maintained and upgraded even after I left. And during the close mentorship with my mentor, I realize the importance of systematic approaches in delivering software, which I could pick up in your project. Craftsmanship is the mindset held by professionals, it can be learnt by keep observing and doing.

I enjoy public goods produced by the Free/open-source community, and I am trying to generate some. My GitHub account is ofey404, sometimes I contribute to the tools I like. Recently I joined GNU's Chinese translation mailing list and began to submit reviews. There is no wall around those collaborations, so I engage in to do what I can right now. I have a dream, to pass this computer world I loved to the next generation, with more public goods and healthier relationships between people and technology.

"Information is power," Aaron Swartz said, and I would contribute to diversity by focusing on accessibility. The mode of Git, distributed open-source version control, is proved to be effective in passing invisible wall. My common ID 'ofey404' is to remind the big day I bypassed the Great Firewall with open-source software. I won't be another brick in the wall, a self-serving elite, because I know how information is poisoned and people are divided. My VCS project is focused on disseminating knowledge, and I believe I can motivate my classmates to be more informed citizens.

## EndMain

Apart from propose my own project, I would choose an alternative project.

I'm also quite adaptive for other faculty and partner projects


### Gain Technical Expertise and Leadership Skills

https://eecs.berkeley.edu/academics/graduate/industry-programs/meng

A Master's degree is an essential beginning for a long-term career in Electrical Engineering and in Computer Science.

A Master's degree will allow you a deeper technical specialization, giving you both a head start in your career and a long-term advantage by making it easier for you to track new developments and change direction in your career.

Berkeley's Master of Engineering program goes beyond technical specialization to offer courses in engineering leadership and a team-oriented capstone project.

The project allows you to practice, with guidance, the technical and non-technical skills that you learn in the classroom.

Our M.Eng. in EECS program offers innovative graduate courses on scientific and technical topics, organized by technical concentrations that match your interest.

### Video

https://funginstitute.berkeley.edu/programs-centers/full-time-program/

World-class Berkeley Engineering faculty & research facilities.

Beautiful San Francisco Bay Area setting & Silicon Valley entrepreneurial culture.

### Capstone Project Format

https://funginstitute.berkeley.edu/programs-centers/full-time-program/capstone-experience/project-format/
